Added Directus + Gatsby blog post (#63)
directus-community/guest-authoring: gatsby-directus-website/index.md

---
title: Build a website with Directus and Gatsby
description: Let's learn how to build a simple website using Directus as a CMS. We'll use the official plugin to create pages dynamically based on a Directus collection and optimize images.
author:
  avatar_file_name: alvin-bryan.jpeg
  name: Alvin Bryan
---

## Introduction

> Hello! This is a blog post to show you how to create a simple static website using Gatsby and Directus as a headless CMS.
> 
> We'll make use of the official Directus Gatsby plugin whichs lets hook into the best feature of Gatsby, which is image compression.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this blog post, we will create a static website using Gatsby and Directus as a Headless CMS.

We'll make use of the official Directus Gatsby plugin which leverages into one of Gatsby's best features - image compression.
```

Most of this is just for readability, but specifically taking note of the removal of 'simple' https://justsimply.dev/

## Before You Start

You will need:

- Node.js and a code editor installed.
- A Directus project - [follow the quickstart guide](https://docs.directus.io/getting-started/quickstart) to create one.
- Knowledge of Gatsby and React.

## Setup

> Create a new gatsby project using NPM:
> 
> ```sh
> npm init gatsby
> ```
> 
> Respond with the following:
> 
> ```sh
> What would you like to call your site?
> ✔ · Directus Gatsby Blog
> 
> What would you like to name the folder where your site will be created?
> ✔ code/ directus-gatsby-blog
> 
> ✔ Will you be using JavaScript or TypeScript?
> · JavaScript
> 
> ✔ Will you be using a CMS?
> · No (or I'll add it later)
> 
> ✔ Would you like to install a styling system?
> · No (or I'll add it later)
> 
> ? Would you like to install additional features with other plugins?
> · Done
> 
> ❯◯ Add the Google gtag script for e.g. Google Analytics
> · Done
> 
> Shall we do this? (Y/n)
> › Yes
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
Create a new Gatsby project on your terminal and walk through the wizard:

```sh
npm init gatsby

What would you like to call your site?
  › Directus Gatsby Blog
What would you like to name the folder where your site will be created?
  › directus-gatsby-blog
Will you be using JavaScript or TypeScript?
  › JavaScript
Will you be using a CMS?
  › No (or I'll add it later)
Would you like to install a styling system?
  › No (or I'll add it later)
Would you like to install additional features with other plugins?
  › Done
Add the Google gtag script for e.g. Google Analytics
  › Done
Shall we do this? (Y/n)
  › Yes
```
````

Shrinking it down visually

> Go into the directory
> 
> ```sh
> cd directus-gatsby-blog
> ```
> 
> Install the Directus Plugin
> 
> ```sh
> npm i @directus/gatsby-source-directus
> ```
> 
> Install the gatsby sharp plugins so we can compress images at build-time.
> 
> ```sh
> npm i gatsby-plugin-image gatsby-transformer-sharp gatsby-plugin-sharp
> ```
> 
> Start the dev server
> 
> ```sh
> npm run develop
> ```
> 
> Your website is live at `http://localhost:8000/`

Reviewer: ````suggestion
Navigate into the new directory and install dependencies:

```sh
cd directus-gatsby-blog
npm install @directus/gatsby-source-directus
npm install gatsby-plugin-image gatsby-transformer-sharp gatsby-plugin-sharp
```

Start the development server

```sh
npm run develop
```

Your website is live at `http://localhost:8000/`
````

It's not too important to explain what every depdendency does - it's ok to just say these are the ones you need now install them.
